feat(curriculum): Add CSS Attribute Selector Quiz (#56611)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/quiz-css-attribute-selectors/66ed8fd0f45ce3ece4053eaf.md

#### --text--

In which scenario is using an attribute selector a bad idea?

#### --distractors--

> ```css
> input[type="text"]:focus {
>     background-color: yellow;
> }
> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```css
input[type="text"]:focus {
    background-color: yellow;
}
````

Author: do not understand what you wanted here, but I hope it is fixed now.

Author: fixed this in commit in a previous commit today.

}

---

> Placeholder distractor 2

Reviewer: you removed one of the distractors, please restore it

> ---
> ```css
> img[alt] {
>     border: 2px solid red;
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
---

```css
img[alt] {
    border: 2px solid red;
}
```
````

I'm trying my best but I am really confused by what happened to the diff of the file

> ---
> ```css
> input[type="text"] {
>     border: 1px solid gray;
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
---

```css
input[type="text"] {
    border: 1px solid gray;
}
```
````

#### --answer--

```css
a[href^="http"] { 
    color: blue;
 }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following will not run as expected with this style?
```CSS
<style>
[title~="flower"] {
  border: 5px solid yellow;
}
</style>
```

> #### --distractors--
> ```css
> <img src="img1.jpg" title="klematis flower" width="150" height="113">
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
#### --distractors--

```css
<img src="img1.jpg" title="klematis flower" width="150" height="113">
```

````

---

> ```css

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```html
````

<img src="img2.jpg" title="flower" width="150" height="113">
```

---

> ```css

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```html
````

<img src="img2.jpg" title="FLOWERS of flower" width="150" height="113">
```

#### --answer--

> ```css
> <img src="img2.jpg" title="flowers" width="150" height="113">
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```css
<img src="img2.jpg" title="flowers" width="150" height="113">
```
````

### --question--

#### --text--

Which selector will target all elements with a `lang` attribute starting with "`fr`"?

#### --distractors--

```css
[lang*="fr"] { color: blue; }
```

---

> ```css
> [lang="fr"] { color: blue; }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```css
[lang="fr"] { color: blue; }
```
````

---

```css
[lang~="fr"] { color: blue; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
[lang^="fr"] { color: blue; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> How would you style `<a>` elements where the title attribute starts with `"Read"`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion

How would you style `<a>` elements where the title attribute starts with `"Read"`?
```

```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which selector targets all elements with a `lang` attribute set to `"en-US"`?

#### --distractors--

```css
[lang*="en"] { color: black; }
```

---

```css
[lang$="US"] { color: black; }
```

---

```css
[lang~="en"] { color: black; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
[lang="en-US"] { color: black; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which selector targets `<a>` elements where the href attribute contains `"https"`?

#### --distractors--

```css
a[href^="https"] { text-decoration: none; }
```

---

```css
a[href~="https"] { text-decoration: none; }
```

---

```css
a[href$="https"] { text-decoration: none; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
a[href*="https"] { text-decoration: none; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

How would you target all elements with a lang attribute that starts with `"es"` but not `"es-MX"`?

#### --distractors--

```css
[lang*="es"]:not([lang="es-MX"]) { color: red; }
```

---

```css
[lang~="es"]:not([lang="es-MX"]) { color: red; }
```

---

```css
[lang$="es"]:not([lang="es-MX"]) { color: red; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
[lang^="es"]:not([lang="es-MX"]) { color: red; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> You want to style the `<img>` elements only if their `alt` attribute does not contain the word `"thumbnail"`. Which selector would achieve this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You want to style the `<img>` elements only if their `alt` attribute does not contain the word `"thumbnail"`. Which selector would achieve this?
```

```

#### --answer--

```css
section[data-theme*="dark"]:not([data-theme$="-light"]) { background-color: black; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You want to style ordered lists (`<ol>`) where the type attribute is set to `"i"` (for Roman numerals). Which of the following selectors would you use?

#### --distractors--

```css
ol[type$="i"] { color: darkgreen; }
```

---

```css
 ol[type*="i"] { color: darkgreen; }
```

---

```css
ol[type^="i"] { color: darkgreen; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
ol[type="i"] { color: darkgreen; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You want to create a highlight effect for all external links (links that point to another domain) by checking for `href` attributes that do not start with your domain (`"freecodecamp.org"`). How would you do this?

#### --distractors--

```css
 a[href^="https://freecodecamp.org"] { color: inherit; }
```

---

```css
a[href$="freecodecamp.org"] { color: inherit; }
```

---

```css
a[href*="freecodecamp.org"] { color: inherit; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
a:not([href^="https://freecodecamp.org"]) { color: orange; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> You need to select ordered lists (`<ol>`) that use the `type="1"` (for numerical listing). Which of the following selectors is correct?

Reviewer: ````suggestion

You need to select ordered lists (`<ol>`) that use the `type="1"` (for numerical listing). Which of the following selectors is correct?
````

#### --distractors--

> ```css
> ol[type*="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```css
ol[type*="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

````

---

> ```css
> ol[type$="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```css
ol[type$="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

````

---

> ```css
> ol[type~="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```css
ol[type~="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

````

#### --distractors--

```css
div[data-completion="100"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

---

```css
div[data-completion*="100"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

---

```css
div[data-completion^="100"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
div[data-completion$="100"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You're building a job portal and want to style job listings where the `data-role` attribute contains `"developer"`. How would you write this selector?

#### --distractors--

```css
div[data-role="developer"] { background-color: lightgreen; }
```

---

```css
div[data-role^="developer"] { background-color: lightgreen; }
```

---

```css
div[data-role$="developer"] { background-color: lightgreen; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
div[data-role*="developer"] { background-color: lightgreen; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You want to style lists that have a type attribute with a value ending in `"square"`, indicating they use square bullets. Which selector would you use?

#### --distractors--

> ```css
> ul[type*="square"] { list-style-type: square; }
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```css
ul[type*="square"] { list-style-type: square; }
```
````

#### --text--

Which selector would target all `option` elements where the value attribute starts with `"A"`?

#### --distractors--

```css
option[value$="A"] { font-size: 14px; }
```

---

```css
option[value*="A"] { font-size: 14px; }
```

---

```css
option[value~="A"] { font-size: 14px; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
option[value^="A"] { font-size: 14px; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> Which of the following will not run as expected with this style?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Which of the following will not match this CSS rule?
```

```html
<style>
[title~="flower"] {
  border: 5px solid yellow;
}
</style>
```

#### --distractors--

```html
<img src="img1.jpg" title="klematis flower" width="150" height="113">
```

---

```html
<img src="img2.jpg" title="flower" width="150" height="113">
```

---

```html
<img src="img2.jpg" title="FLOWERS of flower" width="150" height="113">
```

#### --answer--

```html
<img src="img2.jpg" title="flowers" width="150" height="113">
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which selector will target all elements with a `lang` attribute starting with "`fr`"?

#### --distractors--

```css
[lang*="fr"] { color: blue; }
```

---

```css
[lang="fr"] { color: blue; }
```

---

```css
[lang~="fr"] { color: blue; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
[lang^="fr"] { color: blue; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> How would you style `<a>` elements where the title attribute starts with `"Read"`?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How would you style `<a>` elements where the `title` attribute starts with `"Read"`?
```

#### --distractors--

```css
a[title$="Read"] { color: blue; }
```

---

```css
a[title~="Read"] { color: blue; }
```

---

```css
a[title*="Read"] { color: blue; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
a[title^="Read"] { color: blue; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

>  How would you target all `<input>` elements with an id attribute that ends with `"field"`?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How would you target all `<input>` elements with an `id` attribute that ends with `"field"`?
```

```

---

```css
[lang$="es"]:not([lang="es-MX"]) { color: red; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
[lang^="es"]:not([lang="es-MX"]) { color: red; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You want to style the `<img>` elements only if their `alt` attribute does not contain the word `"thumbnail"`. Which selector would achieve this?

#### --distractors--

```css
img[alt$="thumbnail"] { border: 1px solid red; }
```

---

```css
img[alt^="thumbnail"] { border: 1px solid red; }
```

---

```css
img[alt*="thumbnail"] { border: 1px solid red; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
img:not([alt*="thumbnail"]) { border: 1px solid red; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You're implementing an accessibility feature where `<button>` elements with a `data-tooltip` attribute should show a dotted underline. However, you want to exclude buttons where `data-tooltip` is exactly `"off"`. How would you write the selector?

#### --distractors--

```css
button[data-tooltip="off"] { text-decoration: none; }
```

---

```css
button[data-tooltip*="off"] { text-decoration: underline dotted; }
```

---

```css
button[data-tooltip$="off"] { text-decoration: underline dotted; }
```

#### --answer--

```css

> button:not([data-tooltip="off"]) { text-decoration: underline dotted; }

Reviewer 2: Would this not target button elements that have no `data-tooltip` at all?

Author: fixed this issue.
Thank you for pointing it out!

```

### --question--

#### --text--

> You need to style all links (`a`) that point to image files by selecting href attributes ending with `.jpg`, `.png`, or `.gif`. Which selector works best?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to style all links (`a`) that point to image files by selecting `href` attributes ending with `.jpg`, `.png`, or `.gif`. Which selector works best?
```

#### --distractors--

```css
a[href*=".jpg"], a[href*=".png"], a[href*=".gif"] { border-bottom: 2px solid green; }
```

---

```css
a[href$=".jpg"], a[href~=".png"], a[href^=".gif"] { border-bottom: 2px solid green; }
```

---

```css
a[href*="image"] { border-bottom: 2px solid green; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
a[href$=".jpg"], a[href$=".png"], a[href$=".gif"] { border-bottom: 2px solid green; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

How would you target `section` elements that have a `data-theme` attribute containing the word `"dark"` but exclude those where it ends with `"-light"`?

#### --distractors--

```css
section[data-theme="dark"]:not([data-theme$="-light"]) { background-color: black; }
```

---

```css
section[data-theme*="dark"]:not([data-theme*="-light"]) { background-color: black; }
```

---

```css
section[data-theme^="dark"]:not([data-theme$="-light"]) { background-color: black; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
section[data-theme*="dark"]:not([data-theme$="-light"]) { background-color: black; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> You want to style ordered lists (`ol`) where the type attribute is set to `"i"` (for Roman numerals). Which of the following selectors would you use?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You want to style ordered lists (`ol`) where the `type` attribute is set to `"i"` (for Roman numerals). Which of the following selectors would you use?
```

#### --distractors--

```css
 a[href^="https://freecodecamp.org"] { color: inherit; }
```

---

```css
a[href$="freecodecamp.org"] { color: inherit; }
```

---

```css
a[href*="freecodecamp.org"] { color: inherit; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
a:not([href^="https://freecodecamp.org"]) { color: orange; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You need to select ordered lists (`ol`) that use the `type="1"` (for numerical listing). Which of the following selectors is correct?

#### --distractors--

```css
ol[type*="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

---

```css
ol[type$="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

---

```css
ol[type~="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
 ol[type="1"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Suppose, on freeCodeCamp’s forum, each discussion has a `data-status` attribute that could be `"open"` or `"closed"`. You want to highlight all open discussions. How would you select these discussions?

#### --distractors--

```css
div[data-status$="open"] { border: 2px solid green; }

> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```

````
Missing blank line causes linting to fail.

#### --text--

In which scenario is using an attribute selector a bad idea?

#### --distractors--

```css
input[type="text"]:focus {
    background-color: yellow;
}
```

---

```css
img[alt] {
    border: 2px solid red;
}
```

---

```css
input[type="text"] {
    border: 1px solid gray;
}
```

#### --answer--

```css

> a[href^="http"] { 

Reviewer 2: Why is this bad?

Feels like a subjective thing.

Author: The idea is that it will highlight all links on the page. Compared to other options this seems unnecessary. Also, if a developer does want a formatting in all the links, they can do so in simpler ways. 

Although on a second thought, this can have a use-case since all links may not be http.

I'll change this question.

Author: Hello, I have replaced this question with a new one.

#### --text--

In which scenario is using an attribute selector a bad idea?

#### --distractors--

> ```css
> input[type="text"]:focus {
>     background-color: yellow;
> }
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```css
input[type="text"]:focus {
    background-color: yellow;
}
```
````

we can do without this empty line

---

```css
img[alt] {
    border: 2px solid red;
}
```

---

```css
input[type="text"] {
    border: 1px solid gray;
}
```

#### --answer--

```css
a[href^="http"] { 
    color: blue;
 }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> Which of the following will not run as expected with this style?
> 
> ```css
> <style>
> [title~="flower"] {
>   border: 5px solid yellow;
> }
> </style>
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Which of the following will not run as expected with this style?

```html
<style>
[title~="flower"] {
  border: 5px solid yellow;
}
</style>
```
````
using `style` tags, it's html

#### --distractors--

> ```css

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```html
````

#### --distractors--

```css
div[data-completion="100"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

---

```css
div[data-completion*="100"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

---

```css
div[data-completion^="100"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
div[data-completion$="100"] { font-weight: bold; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You're building a job portal and want to style job listings where the `data-role` attribute contains `"developer"`. How would you write this selector?

#### --distractors--

```css
div[data-role="developer"] { background-color: lightgreen; }
```

---

```css
div[data-role^="developer"] { background-color: lightgreen; }
```

---

```css
div[data-role$="developer"] { background-color: lightgreen; }
```

#### --answer--

```css
div[data-role*="developer"] { background-color: lightgreen; }
```

### --question--

#### --text--

You want to style lists that have a type attribute with a value ending in `"square"`, indicating they use square bullets. Which selector would you use?

#### --distractors--

> ```css
> ul[type*="square"] { list-style-type: square; }
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```css
ul[type*="square"] { list-style-type: square; }
```
````

let's not add empty lines that are not needed

Author: deleted the extra line now in commit: [8b705e3](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/pull/56611/commits/8b705e3e566119548c0f2c6937818a1fd3d0c447)

#### --text--

> How would you target all `<input>` elements with an `id` attribute that ends with `"field"`?

Author: fair enough. I have used the `///` wherever I wrote a code-related term.
